We worked on a guest post together had
this really key insight that building AI
products is very different from building
nonAI products.
>> Most people tend to ignore the
non-determinism. You don't know how the
user might behave with your product and
you also don't know how the LLM might
respond to that. The second difference
is the agency control trade-off. Every
time you hand over decision-m
capabilities to agentic systems, you're
kind of relinquishing some amount of
control on your end.
>> This significantly changes the way you
should be building product. So we
recommend building step by step. When
you start small, it forces you to think
about what is the problem that I'm going
to solve. In all this advancements of
the AI, one easy slippery slope is to
keep thinking about complexities of the
solution and forget the problem that
you're trying to solve.
>> It's not about being the first company
to have an agent among your competitors.
It's about have you built the right fly
wheels in place so that you can improve
over time.
>> What kind of ways of working do you see
in companies that build AI products
successfully? I used to work with the
CEO of now Rackspace. He would have this
block every day in the morning which
would say catching up with AI 4 to 6:00
a.m. Leaders have to get back to being
hands-on. You must be comfortable with
the fact that your intuions might not be
right and you probably are the dumbest
person in the room and you want to learn
from everyone.
>> What do you think the next year of AI is
going to look like?
>> Persistence is extremely valuable.
Successful companies right now building
in any new area. They are going through
the pain of learning this, implementing
this and understanding what works and
what doesn't work. Pain is the new mode.
Today my guests are Aishwaria Raanti and
Kiti Bottom. Kiti works on codecs at
OpenAI and has spent the last decade
building AI and ML infrastructure at
Google and at Kumo. Ash was an early AI
researcher at Alexa and Microsoft and
has published over 35 research papers.
Together, they've led and supported over
50 AI product deployments across
companies like Amazon, Data Bricks,
OpenAI, Google, and both startups and
large enterprises. Together, they also
teach the number one rated AI course on
Maven, where they teach product leaders
all of the key lessons they've learned
about building successful AI products.
The goal of this episode is to save you
and your team a lot of pain and
suffering and wasted time trying to
build your AI product. Whether you are
already struggling to make your product
work or want to avoid that struggle,
this episode is for you. If you enjoy
this podcast, don't forget to subscribe
and follow it in your favorite
podcasting app or YouTube. It helps
tremendously. And if you become an
annual subscriber of my newsletter, you
get a year free of a ton of incredible
products, including a year free of
lovable, replet, bold, gamma, nad
linear, Devon, Postto, Superhum, Dcript,
Whisper Flow, Perplexity, Warp, Granola,
Magic Pattern, Dracast, Chapter D,
Mobit, and Stripe Atlas. Head on over to
lenny'snewsletter.com and click product
pass. With that, I bring you Awaria
Oranti and Kiti bottom after a short
word from our sponsors.
This episode is brought to you by Merge.
Product leaders hate building
integrations. They're messy. They're
slow to build. They're a huge drain on
your road map, and they're definitely
not why you got into product in the
first place. Lucky for you, Merge is
obsessed with integrations. With a
single API, B2B SAS companies embed
Merge into their product and ship 220
plus customerf facing integrations in
weeks, not quarters. Think of merge like
Plaid, but for everything B2B SAS.
Companies like Merall AI, ramp, and use
Merge to connect their customers as
accounting, HR, ticketing, CRM, and file
storage systems to power everything from
automatic onboarding to AI ready data
pipelines. Even better, Merge now
supports the secure deployment of
connectors to AI agents with a new
product so that you can safely power AI
workflows with real customer data. If
your product needs customer data from
dozens of systems, Merge is the fastest,
safest way to get it. Book and attend a
meeting at merge.dev/lenny
and they'll send you a $50 Amazon gift
card. That's merge.dev/lenny.
This episode is brought to you by
Stella, the customer research platform
built for the AI era. Here's the truth
about user research. It's never been
more important or more painful. Teams
want to understand why customers do what
they do. But recruiting users, running
interviews, and analyzing insights takes
weeks. By the time the results are in,
the moment to act has passed. Strella
changes that. It's the first platform
that uses AI to run and analyze in-depth
interviews automatically, bringing fast
and continuous user research to every
team. Strella's AI moderator asks real
follow-up questions, probing deeper when
answers are vague, and services patterns
across hundreds of conversations, all in
a few hours, not weeks. Product design
and research teams at companies like
Amazon and Dualingo are already using
Stella for Figma prototype testing,
concept validation, and customer journey
research, getting insights overnight
instead of waiting for the next sprint.
If your team wants to understand
customers at the speed you ship
products, try Strella. Run your next
study at strea.io/lenny.
That's s t re l.io/lenny.
Ash and Kiti, thank you so much for
being here and welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you. Thank you for having us.
Super excited for this.
>> Let me set the stage for the
conversation that we're going to have
today. So, you two have built a bunch of
AI products yourself. You've gone deep
with a lot of companies who uh have
built AI products, have struggled to
build AI products, build AI agents. You
also teach a course on building AI
products successfully that and you're
kind of like on this mission to just
reduce pain and suffering and failure uh
that you constantly see people go
through when they're building AI
products. So to set a little just
foundation for the conversation we're
going to have, what are you seeing on
the ground within companies trying to
build AI products? What's going well?
What's not going well?
>> I think 2025 has been significantly
different than 2024. one, the skepticism
has significantly reduced. Um, there
were tons of leaders last year who
probably thought this would be yet
another crypto wave and kind of
skeptical to get started and a lot of
the use cases that I saw last year were
more of Snapchat on your data, right?
and that was, you know, um calling
themselves an AI product. And this year,
a ton of companies are really rethinking
their user experiences and their
workflows and all of that and really
understanding that you need to
deconstruct and reconstruct your
processes in order to have a in order to
build successful AI products, right? And
that's that's the good stuff. The bad
stuff is the execution is still all over
the place. Um, think of it, right? This
is a three-year-old field. There are no
play playbooks. there are no textbooks.
Um so you really need to figure out as
you go and the AI life cycle both
pre-eployment and post- deployment is
very different as compared to a
traditional software life cycle. Um and
so so a lot of old contracts and
handoffs between traditional roles like
say PMs and engineers and data folks has
now been broken. It's and people are
really getting adapted to this new way
of working together and kind of owning
the same feedback loop in a way because
previously I feel like PMs and engineers
and all of these folks had their own
feedback loops to optimize and now you
need to be probably sitting in the same
room. You're probably looking at agent
traces together and deciding how your uh
product should behave. So it's a tighter
form of collaboration. So companies are
still kind of figuring that out. That's
kind of what I see um in my consulting
practice this year.
>> So, let me follow that thread. We worked
on a guest post together that came out a
few months ago. And the thing that stood
out to me most that stuck with me most
after working on that post is you had
this really uh key insight that building
AI products is very different from
building non-AI products. And the thing
that you're big on getting across is
there's two very big differences. Talk
about those two differences.
>> Yes. Um and again I I want to make sure
that we drive home the right point. Um
there are tons of uh similarities of
building AI systems and software systems
as well. But then there are some things
that kind of fundamentally change the
way you build software systems um versus
AI systems, right? And one of them that
most people tend to ignore is the
non-determinism. Uh you're pretty much
working with a non-deterministic API as
compared to traditional software. What
does that mean and why does that have to
affect us is in traditional software you
pretty much have a very well-mapped
decision engine or workflow. Think of
something like booking.com right you um
you have an intention that uh you want
to make a booking in San Francisco for
two nights etc. uh the product has kind
of been built uh so that your intention
can be converted into a particular
action and you kind of are clicking
through a bunch of buttons, options,
forms and all of that and you finally
achieve your intention. But now that
layer in AI products has completely been
replaced by a very fluid um interface
which is mostly natural language which
means you the user can literally come up
with ton of ways of saying uh or
communicating their intentions, right?
And that kind of changes a lot of things
because now you don't know how your user
is going to behave. That's on the input
side. And the output is also that you're
working with a non-deterministic
probabilistic API which is your LLM. And
LLMs are pretty sensitive to prompt
phrasings and they're pretty much black
boxes. So you don't even know how the
output surface will look like, right? So
this um you don't know how the user
might behave with your product and you
also don't know how the LLM might
respond to that. So you're now working
with an input, output, and a proc
process. And you don't understand all
the three very well. You're trying to
kind of anticipate behavior and build
for it. And with agentic systems, this
kind of gets even harder. And that's
where we talk about the second
difference, which is the agency control
trade-off. Right? What we mean by that,
and I'm kind of shocked. So many people
don't talk about this. They're extremely
obsessed with building autonomous
systems, agents can that can do work for
you. But every time you hand over
decision-m capabilities or autonomy to
agentic systems, you're kind of
relinquishing some amount of control on
your end, right? And when you do that,
you want to make sure that your agent
has um caning your trust or it is
reliable enough that you can allow it to
make decisions. And that's where we talk
about this agency control trade-off
which is if you give your AI agent or
your AI system whatever it is more
agency which is the ability to make
decisions you're also um losing some
control and you want to make sure that
the agent or the AI system has earned um
that ability or has built up trust over
time.
>> So just to summarize what you're sharing
here essentially people have been
building product software products for a
long time. We're now in a world where
the software you're building is one
non-deterministic can just do things
differently like you know as you said
you go to booking.com you find a hotel
it's going to be the same experience
every time you'll see different hotels
but it's a predictable experience with
AI you can't predict that it's going to
be the exact same thing the thing that
you uh plan it to be every time and then
the other is there's this trade-off
between agency and control how much will
the AI do for you versus how much should
the person still be in charge and the
what I'm hearing is the big point here
is significantly changes the way you
should be building product and we're
going to talk about the impact on how
the product development life cycle
should change as a result. Is there
anything else you want to add there
before we get into into that? Yeah, it's
definitely like one of the key points
that uh this kind of distinction needs
to exist in your mind like when you're
starting to build. For example, think
about if your like objective is to hike
uh half term inity, right? You don't
start hiking it every day, but you start
you know training yourself for like you
know in in minor parts and then you
slowly improve and then like you go to
the end goal, right? I feel like that's
extremely similar to what you want to
build AI products in the sense that when
you don't start with like agents with
all the tools and all the context that
you have in the company in day one and
expect it to work or like you don't even
tinker at that level. You need to be
deliberately starting in places where
there is minimal impact and more human
control so that you have like a good
grip of what are the current
capabilities and what can I do with them
and then slowly you know like lean into
the more agency and lesser control. So
this gives you that confidence that okay
I can know that okay this is the
particular problem that I'm facing and
the AI can solve this extent of it and
then like let me next think through what
context I need to bring in what kind of
tools I need to add to this to improve
the uh experience right so I feel like
it's also uh it's a good and a bad thing
in sense that it's good that you don't
have to see the complexity of the
outside world of like you know all of
this fancy AI agents force and feel like
I cannot do that it's always everyone is
starting from very uh minimalistic
structures and then evolving. And the
second part is like it's also good the
the bad thing is that as you are like
you know trying to build this oneclick
agents into your company you don't have
to be overwhelmed with this complexity
you can like slowly graduate. So that's
extremely important and we see this as a
repeating pattern over and over.
>> Okay. All right. So, let's actually
follow that, right? Cuz that's a really
important component of how you recommend
people build AI stuff. AI stuff, AI
products, AI agents, all the AI things.
Um, so give us an example what you're
talking about here. This idea of
starting
uh slow with agency and control and then
moving kind of up this rung.
>> Yeah. For example, a very important or
like very prevalent uh application of AI
agents is like customer support, right?
Uh imagine like you are a company who
has like a lot of customer support
tickets and why even imagine like OpenAF
faced the exact same thing when we were
launching products and there was like a
huge spike of uh support volume as like
you know we launch successful products
like image and or uh you know like GPD5
and things like that the kind of
questions you get is different the kind
of like you know u problems that the
customers bring to you is different. So
it's not about just like dumping all the
uh list of help center articles that you
have into the AI agent. you kind of
understand what are the things that you
can build and so initially the first
step of it would be something like uh
you have your support agents the human
support agents but you will be
suggesting uh in terms of okay this is
what the AI thinks that is the right
thing to do and then you get that
feedback loop from the humans that okay
this is actually a good suggestion for
me in this particular case and this is a
bad suggestion and then you can go back
and understand okay uh this is what the
drawbacks are or this is where the blind
spots are and then how do I fix that?
And once you get that you can increase
the autonomy to say that okay I don't
need to suggest to the human I'll
actually show the uh show the answer
directly to the customers to the
customer and then we can actually add
more complexity in terms of okay uh I
was only answering questions based on
health center articles but now let me
add new functionality like I can
actually issue refunds to the customers
I can actually raise feature requests
with the engineering team and all of
these things. So if you start all with
all of this on day one, it's incredibly
hard to control the complexity. So we
recommend like you know building step by
step and then increasing it.
>> Awesome. And you have a visual actually
that we'll share of what this looks
like. But just to kind of mirror back
what you're describing this idea of
start with high control, low agency in
your the example you gave is the support
agent is just kind of giving suggestions
is not able to do anything. the user is
in charge. And then as that becomes
useful and you are confident it's doing
the right sort of work, you give it a
little more agency and you kind of pull
back on the control the user has. And
then if that's starting to go well, then
you give it more agency and the user
needs less control to control it.
>> Awesome.
>> I I think the higher level idea here is
with AI systems, it's all about behavior
calibration. It's incredibly impossible
to predict up front how your system
behaves. Now what do you do about it?
You make sure that you don't ruin your
customer experience or your end user
experience. Um you keep that as is but
then remove the amount of control that
the human has and there is no single
right way of doing it. You can decide
how to constrain that autonomy. Right?
Um, a very I mean a different example of
how you could constrain autonomy is
pre-authorization use cases. Insurance
pre-authorization is a very ripe use
case for AI because uh clinicians spend
a lot of time um pre-authorizing
uh things like blood tests, MRIs and
things like that, right? And there are
some cases which are more of lowhanging
fruits. for instance, MRIs and blood
tests because um as soon as you know
patients information, it's easier to
approve that and AI could do that versus
something like an invasive surgery, etc.
is more high-risk. You don't want to be
doing that autonomously. So, you can
kind of determine which of these use
cases should go through that human and
the loop layer versus which of the use
cases AI can conveniently handle. And
then all through this process, you're
also logging what the human is doing,
right? because you want to build a
flywheel um that you could use in order
to improve your system. Um so you're
essentially um not ruining the user
experience, not eroding trust at the
same time logging what humans would
otherwise do so that you can
continuously improve your system.
>> So let me let me give you a few more
examples of this kind of progression
that you recommend. And this the reason
I'm spending so much time here is this
is a really key part of your
recommendation to help people build more
successful AI products. this idea of
start slow with high control and low
agency and then build up over time once
you've built confidence that it's doing
the right sort of work. So a few more
examples that you shared in your post
that I'll just read. So say you're
building a coding assistant. V1 would be
just suggest inline completion and
boilerplate snippets. V2 would be
generate larger blocks like tests or
refactors for humans to review. And then
V3 is just apply the changes and open
PRs autonomously.
And then another example is a marketing
assistant. So V1 would be draft emails
or social copy just like here's what I
would do. V2 is build a multi-step
campaign and run the campaign and then
launch and V3 is just launch it AB test
it autooptimize campaigns across
channels.
>> Awesome.
>> Yeah.
>> And and again just to summarize where
we're at just to give people the the
advice we've shared so far. Uh one is
just important to understand AI products
are different. They're
non-deterministic. And he pointed out
and I forgot to actually mirror back
this point both on the in on the input
and the output the user experience is
nondeterministic like people will see
different things different outputs
different chat conversations different
maybe UI if it's designing the UI for
you and also the output obviously is
going to be nondeterministic so that's a
problem and a challenge and then uh
>> I mean if you think of it it's also the
most beautiful part of AI which is I
mean we're all much more comfortable
talking than following a bunch of
buttons and all of that right? So the
bar to using AI products is much lower
because you can be as natural as you
would be with humans. But that's also
the problem which is there are tons of
ways we communicate. Um and it's you
want to make sure that that intent is
rightly communicated and the right
actions are taken because most of your
systems are deterministic and you want
to achieve a deterministic outcome uh
but with non-deterministic technology
and that's where it gets a little messy.
>> Awesome. Okay. That's a I love I love
the the optimistic version of the why
this is good. Okay. And then the other
piece is this idea of this trade-off of
autonomy versus control when you're
designing a thing. And what I imagine
what you're seeing is people try to jump
to the ideal like the V3 immediately and
that's when they get into trouble both.
It's probably a lot harder to build that
and it's just doesn't work and then
they're just like okay this is a
failure. What are we even doing?
>> Exactly. I feel there's like a bunch of
things that you actually have to uh get
confidence in before you get to V3 and
it's it's easy to get overwhelmed that
oh my AI agent is like doing these
things wrong in like 100 different ways
and you're not going to actually
tabulate all of them and fix it right
even though you've learned like you know
how do you deal with the uh evaluation
practices and stuff like that. If you're
starting on the wrong spot you are
actually going to have a hard time like
you know correcting things from there.
And when you start uh small and when you
start with building like a very
minimalistic version with high human
control and low agency, it also forces
you to think about what is the problem
that I'm going to solve. uh we we use
this term called problem first and uh to
me it was like obvious in the sense that
yeah I I do need to think about the
problem but it's incredible how well it
resonates with the people that in all
this advancements of the AI that we are
seeing one easy slippery slope is to
just keep thinking about uh complexities
of the solution and not and forget the
problem that you're trying to solve. So
when you're trying to start at like a
small at a smaller scale of autonomy,
you start to really think about what is
the problem that I'm trying to solve and
how do I break it down into like levels
of autonomy that I can build later. So
that is incredibly useful when like and
we keep repeating this pattern over and
over with everyone we talk to.
And there's so many other benefits to uh
limiting autonomy because there there's
just danger also of the thing doing too
much for you and just messing up your I
don't know your database sending out all
these emails you never expected. There's
like so many reasons this is a good
idea.
>> Yep. I I recently read this paper from a
bunch of folks at UC Berkeley. um
basically mate Zahara Stoker and the
folks at data bricks and it said about
74 or 75% of the enterprises that they
had spoken to um their biggest problem
was reliability and that's also why they
weren't uh comfortable um deploying
products to their end users or building
customerf facing products because they
just weren't sure or they just weren't
um comfortable doing that and exposing
their users to a bunch of these risks,
right? And that's also why they think a
lot of AI products today have to do with
productivity because it's much low
autonomy versus you know end to end
agents that would replace workflows. Um
and yeah I love their work otherwise as
well but I think that's very in line
with what um at least we're seeing at my
startup as well.
>> Okay very interesting. There's an
episode that'll come out before this
conversation where we go deep into
another problem that this avoids which
is around uh prompt injection and
jailbreaking and just how big of a
>> uh ex risk that is for AI products where
it's essentially an unsolved and
unsolvable problem potentially. I'm not
going to go down that track, but that's
uh it's a pretty scary conversation we
had that it'll be out before this
conversation.
>> I think that will be a huge problem once
systems go mainstream. We're still so
busy building AI products that we're not
worried about security, but it it will
be um such a huge problem to kind of u
especially with this non-deterministic
API again, right? So, you're kind of
stuck because um there are tons of
instructions that you could inject
within your prompt and then yeah, it's
it's going to be bad. Okay, I let's
actually spend a little time here
because it's actually really interesting
to me and no one's talking about this
stuff which is like the conversation we
had is just it's pretty easy to get AI
to trick to do stuff it shouldn't do and
there's all these guardrail systems
people put in place but turns out these
guardrails aren't actually very good and
you can always get around them and to
your point as agents become more
autonomous and robots uh it gets pretty
scary that you could get AI to do things
you shouldn't do. I think this is
definitely a problem. But I feel in the
current spectrum of like customers
adopting AI, the the extent to which
like you know companies can actually get
advantage of AI or like improve their
processes or like you know streamline
the existing processes that they have. I
feel it's in still in the very early
stage like 2025 has been an extremely
busy year for AI agents and customers
trying to adopt AI. But I feel the
penetration is still not as much as you
would actually get advantage out of it.
So with the right sort of you know human
in the loop uh points in here I feel we
can actually avoid a bunch of these
things and focus more towards like
streamlining the processes and I I am
more on the optimist side in the sense
that like you need to try and adopt this
before actually like trying to be only
highlighting the negative aspects of
like what could go wrong. So I I feel
like strongly u that companies has to
adopt this. They definitely like no
company uh at openi we talked to is has
never had been the case that oh AI
cannot help me in this case. It has
always been that oh there is this like
set of things that it can uh optimize
for me and then let me see how I can
adopt it. Sweet. I always like the
optimistic perspective. I'm excited to
for you to listen to this and see what
you think because it's really
interesting and uh and to your point
there's a lot of things to focus on.
It's one of one of many things to worry
about and think about. Okay, let's get
back on track here. So, we've shared a
bunch of pro tips and important piece of
advice. Let me ask, what other patterns
and kind of ways of working do you see
in companies that do this well and teams
that build AI products successfully? And
then just what are the most common
pitfalls people fall into? So, we could
just maybe start with what are other
ways that companies do this well, build
AI products successfully? I almost think
of it as like a success triangle with
three dimensions. It's never always
technical. Every technology problem is a
people problem first. And with companies
that we have worked with, it's these
three dimensions, right? Like great
leaders, good culture and technical
progress. Um with leaders itself, we
work with a lot of companies uh for
their AI transformation, training,
strategy and stuff like that. And I feel
like um a lot of companies the leaders
have built intuitions over 10 or 15
years and they are kind of highly
regarded for those intuions but now with
AI in the picture those intuions will
have to be relearned and leaders have to
be vulnerable to do that right. Um I
used to work with the CEO of now
Rackspace Gajen. So he would um have
this block every day in the morning
which would say catching up with AI 4 to
6:00 a.m. and he would not have any
meetings or anything like that and that
was just his time to pick up on the
latest AI um you know podcast or
information and all of that and he would
have um weekend white coding sessions
and stuff like that. So I think leaders
have to get back to being hands-on and
that's not because they have to be
implementing these things but more of uh
rebuilding their intuitions because you
must be comfortable with the fact that
your intuitions might not be right. Um
and you you probably are the dumbest
person in the room and you want to learn
from everyone. Um and that I've seen
that being a very um distinguishing
factor of companies that build products
um which are successful because you're
kind of bringing in that top down
approach. It's almost always impossible
for it to be bottom up. You can't have a
bunch of engineers go and get buyin from
the leader if they just don't trust in
the technology or if they have
misaligned expectations about the
technology. Right? I've heard from so
many folks who are building that our
leaders just don't understand the extent
to which AI can solve a particular
problem or they just white code
something and assume it's easy to take
it to production and you really need to
understand the range of what AI can
solve today so that you can guide
decisions within the company. The second
one is the culture itself, right? And
again, I work with enterprises where AI
is not their main thing and they have um
they need to bring in AI into their
processes just because a competitor is
doing it and just because it does make
sense because there are use cases that
are very ripe. Then along the way, I
feel a lot of companies have this
culture of FOMO and you will be replaced
and those kind of things and people get
really afraid. um subject matter experts
are such a huge part of building AI
products that work because you really
need to consult them to understand how
your AI is behaving or what the ideal
behavior should be. But then I have
spoken to a bunch of companies where the
subject matter experts just don't want
to talk to you because they think their
job is being replaced. So as I mean
again this comes from the leader itself.
want to build a culture of empowerment
of um augmenting AI into your own
workflows so that you know you can 10x
what you're doing instead of saying that
you know probably uh you'll be replaced
if you don't adopt AI and stuff like
that. So that kind of an empowering
culture always helps you want to make um
your entire organization be in it
together and make AI work for you
instead of trying to you know guard
their own jobs etc. And with AI, it's
also true that it opens up a lot more
opportunities than before. So you could
have your employees doing a lot more
things than before and 10x their
productivity. Um, and the third one is
the technical part which we talk about,
right? I think folks that are successful
are incredibly obsessed about
understanding their workflows very well
and augmenting parts um that could be um
um that could be ripe for AI versus the
ones that might need human in the loop
somewhere etc. Whenever you're uh trying
to automate some part of a workflow,
it's never the case that you could you
could use an AI agent and that will kind
of solve your uh problems, right? It's
always you probably have a machine
learning uh model that's going to do
some part of the job. You have
deterministic code doing some part of
the job. So you really need to be
obsessed with understanding that
workflow so you can choose the right
tool for the problem instead of being
obsessed with the technology itself. And
um another pattern I see is also folks
really understand this idea of working
with a non-deterministic API which is
your LLM. And what that means is they
also understand the development life
cycle looks very different and they
iterate pretty quickly which is can I um
can I build something iterate uh quickly
in a way that it doesn't ruin my
customer experience at the same time
gives me enough amount of data so that I
can estimate behavior right so they
build that flywheel very quickly as of
today it's not about being the first
company to have an agent among your
competitors it's about have you built
the right flywheels in place so that you
can improve over time
When someone comes up to me and says,
"We have this one-click agent. It's
going to be deployed in your system and
then in two or three days it'll start
showing you significant gains," I would
almost be skeptical because it's just
not possible. And that's not because the
models aren't there, but because
enterprise data and infrastructure is
very messy and you need a bit to even
the agent needs a bit to understand um
how these systems work. There are very
messy taxonomies everywhere. um people
tend to do things like get customer data
wi1 get customer data w2 and these kind
of things and all those functions exist
and um they are being called and there's
basically there's a lot of tech debt
that you need to deal with. So most of
the times if you're obsessed with the
problem itself and you understand your
workflows very well you will know how to
improve your agents over time instead of
just slapping an agent and assuming that
it'll work from day one. I probably will
go as far to say that if someone's
selling you one click agents, it's it's
pure marketing. You don't want to buy
into that. I would rather go with a
company that says we're going to build
this pipeline for you and that that will
learn over time and kind of build a
flywheel to improve than something
that's going to work out of the box to
replace any critical workflow or to um
build something that can give you
significant ROI easily takes four to six
months of work. Even if you have the
best data layer and infrastructure
layer. Amazing. There's a lot there that
resonates so deeply with other
conversations I've been having on this
podcast. One is just for a company to be
successful at seeing a lot of impact
from AI, the founder CEO has to be deep
into it. Uh I had Dan Shipper on the
podcast and they work with a bunch of
companies helping them adopt AI and he
said that's the number one predictor of
success is the CEO chatting with Chad
GPT, Claude, whatever uh many times a
day. I love this example you gave the
Rackspace as like catch up on AI news in
the morning every day. I was imagining
he'd be like chatting with like the
chatbot versus uh like reading news.
>> With the kind of information you have as
of today, you could just um I mean you
want to choose the right um channels as
well because everybody has an opinion.
So whose opinion do you want to bank on?
I feel like having that good quality set
of people that you're listening to
really makes sense. So he just has a
list of two or three sources that he
always looks at and and then he comes
back with a bunch of questions and
bounces it around with a bunch of AI
experts to see what they think about it.
And I was part of that group so I kind
of know um
>> I love that
>> about the questions that he comes up
with. So that's cool.
>> It's pretty cool. I was like why are you
doing so much? And then he says it
trickles down into a bunch of decisions
that we take.
>> Okay, let me talk about another topic
that's very it's been a hot topic on
this podcast. It was a hot topic on
Twitter for a while. Evals.
A lot of people are obsessed with evals,
think they're the solution to a lot of
problems in AI. A lot of people think
they're overrated, that well, you don't
need evals. You can just feel the vibes
and you'll you'll be all right. What's
your take on evals? How far does that
take people in solving a lot of the
problems that you talk about in terms of
like what is going on in the community?
I I feel there's this false dichotomy of
like there's either eval is going to
solve everything or online monitoring or
production monitoring is going to solve
everything and I find no reason to trust
like one of the extremes in the sense
that I will entirely bank my application
on this and or like that to solve the uh
thing right so if you take a step back
uh think of what are eval are basically
your uh trusted product thinking or like
your knowledge about the product that is
going into this uh set of data sets that
you're going to build in the sense that
this is what matters to me like this is
the kind of problems that my agent
should not do and let me build a list of
data sets so that I'm going to do well
on those and in terms of production
monitoring what you're doing doing there
is uh you're deploying your application
and then you're having this some sort of
key metrics that actually communicate
back to you on how customers are using
your product like you could be deploying
uh any agent And like if the C customer
is giving a thumbs up for your
interaction, you better want to know
that. So that is what production
monitoring is going to do, right? And
this production monitoring has existed
for products like for a long time just
that now with AI agents, you need to be
monitoring like a lot more granularity.
It's not just the customer always giving
you explicit feedback, but there is many
implicit feedback that you can get. Uh
for example, in chat GPD, right? Like if
you are uh liking the answer you can
actually give a thumbs up or if you
don't like the answer sometimes
customers don't give you thumbs down but
actually re regenerate the answer. So
that is an clear indication that the
initial answer that you generated is not
matting uh meeting the customer's
expectation. Right. So these are the
kind of implicit signals you always need
to think about and that spectrum has
been increasing in terms of production
monitoring. Now let's come back to the
initial topic of like okay is it eval or
is it production monitoring? What does
it matter? So I feel again we go back to
this problem first approach of what is
your what is it that you're trying to
build like you're trying to build a
reliable application for your customers
that's not going to do a bad thing like
it's always going to do the right thing
or if it is doing a wrong thing you are
uh you're basically alerted like very
quickly right so the I break this down
into two parts like one is you like
nobody goes into uh deploying an
application without actually like you
know just testing that this testing
could be wipes or this testing could be
okay I have this like 10 questions that
it should not go wrong any no matter
what changes I make and let me build
this and let's call this an evaluation
data set now let's say you built this
you deployed this and then you figured
uh okay now I need to understand whether
it's doing the right thing or not so if
you're a high uh high uh throughput or
like a high transaction customer you
cannot practically sit and evaluate all
the traces right you need some
indication to understand what are the
things that I should look at and this is
where production monitoring comes into
the picture that you cannot predict your
uh the base in which your agent could be
doing wrong but all of these other
implicit signals and explicit signals
those are going to communicate back to
you what uh what are the traces that you
need to look at and that is where
production monitoring helps and once you
get this kind of traces you need to
examine what are the failure patterns
that you're seeing in these uh different
types of interactions and is there
something that I really care about that
should not happen and if that kind of
failure modes are happening then I need
to think about building an evaluation
data set for it and okay let's say I
built an evaluation data set for my
agent trying to offer refunds where
explicitly I have configured it not to
so I built this evaluation data set and
then like I made my changes in tools or
prompts or whatever and then I deployed
the second version of the product right
now uh there is no guarantee that this
is the only problem that you're going to
see you still need production monitoring
to actually have like you know catch
different kinds of problems that you
might encounter. So I feel eval are
important, production monitoring is
important but this notion of only one of
them is going to solve things for you
that is uh completely dismissible in my
opinion.
>> All right, a very reasonable answer and
the point here isn't uh it's not just as
simple as do both. It's more that there
are different things to catch and one
approach won't catch all the things you
need to be paying attention to.
>> Exactly. Awesome.
>> I want to take two steps back and kind
of talk about how much weight the term
evals has had to take in the second, you
know, half of 2025
because you go meet a data labeling
company and they tell you our experts
are writing evals. And then uh you have
all of these uh folks saying that PMS
should be writing evals. They're the new
PRDS. And then you have folks saying
that um eval is pretty much everything
which is the feedback loop you're
supposed to be building to improve your
products. Now step back as a beginner
and kind of think like what are evals?
Why is everyone saying eval? And these
are actually different parts of the
process and nobody's wrong in the sense
that yes these are eval but when a data
labeling company is telling you that our
um experts are writing evals they're
actually referring to error analysis or
you know experts just leading notes on
what should be right. Lawyers and
doctors write evals that doesn't mean
they're building LLM judges or they're
building this entire feedback loop. And
when you say that a PM should be writing
evals doesn't mean they have to write an
LLM judge that's good enough for
production. I think there's there are
also very prescriptive ways of doing
this and plus one to KD which is you
cannot predict up front if you need to
be building an LLM judge versus you need
to be using um implicit signals from
production monitoring etc. I think
Martin Fowler at some point had this
term called semantic diffusion back in
the 2000s. Um um which kind of means
that someone comes up with a term
everybody starts butchering it with
their own definitions and then you kind
of lose the actual definition of it.
That is kind of what is happening to
eval
of today. Everybody kind of sees a
different side to it I guess. Um but if
you make a bunch of practitioners sit
together and ask them is it important to
build a actionable feedback loop for AI
products I think all of them will agree.
Now how you do that really depends on
your application itself when you go to
complex use cases it's incredibly hard
to build LM judges because you see a lot
of emerging patterns. If you built a
judge that would um you know test for
verbosity or something like that, you
turns out that you're seeing newer
patterns that your LM judge is not able
to catch and then you're just um you
just end up building too many evals and
at that point it just makes sense to you
know look at your user signals, fix
them, check if you've regressed and move
on instead of actually building these
judges. Um so it all depends. I think
one statement that every ML practitioner
will tell you is it really depends on
the context. Don't be obsessed with
prescriptions. They're going to change.
>> Uh that's such an important point. This
idea that especially that eval just
means many things to different people
now. It's just like a term for so many
things. And uh it it's complicated to
just talk about evals when you're think
when you see it as the stuff data
labeling companies are giving you and
things are right. And there's also
benchmarks. People call benchmarks a
little bit eval. It's like
>> I I recently spoke to a client who told
me we do eval
>> and I was like okay can you show me your
data set? and said, "No, we just checked
LM arena and artificial analysis. These
are, you know, independent benchmarks
and we know that this model is the right
one for our use case." And I'm like,
"You're not doing eval. That's not eval.
Those are model."
>> That makes sense. Like the word, you
know, like could be used in that
context. I get why people think that,
but yeah, now it's just confusing it
even more.
>> Yep.
>> Just like one more line of questioning
here that I think uh that's on my mind
is the reason this became kind of a big
debate is cloud code, the head of cloud
code, Boris, was like, "Nah, we don't do
evalance on cloud code. It's all vibes.
What can you share kiti on codex and the
codeex team of how you approach evals?
So CEX we have like this balanced
approach of like you know you need to
have eval and you need to definitely
listen to your customers and I think
Alex has been on your podcast recently
and he's been talking about how we
extremely focused on building the right
product right and a part of a big part
of it is basically listening to your
customers and coding agents are
extremely unique compared to agents for
other domains in the sense that these
are actually built for customizability
and these are built for engineers. So
coding agent is not a product which is
going to solve like these top five
workflows or like top six workflows or
whatever right it's meant to be
customizable in multi different ways and
the implication of that is that your
product is going to be used in different
integrations and different kinds of
tools and different kinds of things. So
it gets really hard to build an
evaluation data set for all kinds of
interactions that your customers are
going to use your product for. Right?
But that said, you also need to
understand that okay, if I'm going to
make a change, it's at least not going
to like damage something that is really
core to the product. So we have like
evaluations uh for doing that. At the
same time, we have we take like extreme
care on like understanding how the
customers are using it. For example,
uh we built this code review product
recently and uh it has been gaining like
extreme amount of traction and uh I feel
like many many bugs in OpenAI as well as
like even external customers are getting
caught with this. And now let's say if
I'm making a model change to the course
review or like a different kinds of uh
RL mechanism that I trained with it and
now if I'm going to deploy it I
definitely do want to AP test and
identify whether it's actually finding
the right uh mistakes and are users how
are users reacting to it and sometimes
like if users do get annoyed by your
like you know uh incorrect code riggers
they go to the extent of just switching
off the product right so those are the
signals that you want to look at and
make sure that your new changes are
doing the right thing and it's extremely
hard for us to you know uh think of
these kind of scenarios beforehand and
uh develop evaluation data sets for it.
So I feel like there's a bit of both
like there's a lot of wipes and there's
a lot of like customer feedback and we
are super active on like the social
media to understand if anybody's having
certain types of problems and quickly
fix that. So I feel it's a it's a um how
do I put this? It's like a domain of
things that you do here. That makes so
much sense. Okay, what I'm hearing Codex
Pro evals, but it's not enough. You need
to Yes. But also, uh, just watch
customer behavior and feedback and also
there's some vibes just like is this
feeling good? Is this as I'm using it
generating great code that I'm excited
about that I think is great.
>> I I don't think like if anybody's coming
and saying that like my I have this
concrete set of evas that I can like bet
my life on and then I don't need to
think about anything else like it it's
not going to work. And every new model
that we're going to launch, we uh get
together as a team and like you know
test different things each each person
is like concentrating on something else
and like we have this list of hard
problems that we have and we throw that
to the model and see how well they are
progressing. So it's like uh custom
evals for each engineer you would say
and just like understand what the uh
product is doing in this new model.
If you're a founder, the hardest part of
starting a company isn't having the
idea. It's scaling the business without
getting buried in back office work.
That's where Brex comes in. Brex is the
intelligent finance platform for
founders. With Brex, you get high limit
corporate cards, easy banking, high
yield treasury, plus a team of AI agents
that handle manual finance tasks for
you. They'll do all the stuff that you
don't want to do, like file your
expenses, scour transactions for waste,
and run reports, all according to your
rules. With Brex AI agents, you can move
faster while staying in full control.
One in three startups in the United
States already runs on Brex. You can,
too, at brex.com.
We've been talking for almost an hour
already and we haven't even covered your
extremely powerful software development
workflow for building AI products that
you two developed that you teach in your
course that you basically combines all
the stuff we've been talking about into
a step-by-step approach to building AI
products. You call it the continuous
calibration, continuous development
framework. Let's pull up a visual to
show people what the heck we're talking
about and then just walk us through what
this is, how this works, how teams can
shift the way they build their AI
products to this approach to help them
avoid a lot of pain and suffering.
>> Before we go about explaining um the
life cycle, a quick story on why Kita
and I came up with this is because um
there are tons of u uh companies that we
keep talking to that have the pressure
from their competitors because they're
all building agents. we should be
building agents that are entirely
autonomous. And we I did end up working
with a few customers where we built
these end-to-end agents. And turns out
that because you start off at a place
where you don't know how the user might
interact with your system and what kind
of responses or actions the AI might
come up with, it's really hard to fix
problems when you have this really huge
workflow which is taking four or five
steps, making tons of decisions. you're
you just you just end up debugging so
much and then kind of hot fixing to the
point where at at a time we were
building for a customer support um use
case which is what which is the example
that we give in the newsletter as well
and we to shut down the product because
we were doing so many hot fixes and
there was no way we could um count all
the emerging or emerging problems that
were coming up right and there's also
quite some news online um recently I
think Air Canada had this thing where um
one of their agents predicted or
hallucinated a policy um for a refund
which was not part of their original
playbook and they had to go by it
because legal stuff and there have been
a ton of really uh scary incidents and
that's where the idea comes from right
how can you build so that um you don't
lose customer trust and you don't end up
or your agent or um AI system doesn't
end up making decisions that are super
dangerous to the company itself at the
same time build a flywheel so that you
can improve your product as you go right
and that's why we came up with this idea
of continuous calibration continuous
development. The idea is pretty simple
which is um we have this right side of
the loop which is continuous development
uh where you scope capability and curate
data essentially get a data set of what
your expected inputs are and what um
your expected outputs should be looking
at. This is a very good exercise before
you start building any AI product
because many times you figure out that a
lot of the folks within the team are
just not aligned on how the product
should behave and that's where your PMS
can really give in a lot more
information and your subject matter
experts as well. So you have this data
set that you know um your AI product
should be doing really well on. It's
it's not comprehensive but it lets you
get started and then you set up the
application and then design the right
kind of evaluation metrics and I
intentionally use the term evaluation
metrics although we say eval because I
just want to be very specific on what it
is because evaluation is a process
evaluation metrics are dimensions that
you want to focus on um during the
process right and then you go about
deploying um run your evaluation metrics
um and the second part is the continuous
calibration which is the part where you
understand what um behavior you hadn't
expected in the beginning, right?
Because when you start the development
process, you have this data set that
you're optimizing for, but more often
than not, you realize that that data set
is not comprehensive enough. Um because
users start behaving with your systems
in ways that you did not predict. And
that's where you want to do the
calibration piece. Right? I've deployed
my system. Now I see that there are
patterns that I did not really expect
and your evaluation metrics should give
you some insight into that into those
patterns. But sometimes you figure out
that those metrics were also not enough
and you probably have new error patterns
that you've not thought about and that's
where you analyze your behavior, spot
error patterns. You apply fixes for
issues that you see but you also design
newer evaluation metrics. to figure out
that they are emerging patterns. And
that doesn't mean you should always
design evaluation metrics. There are
some errors that you can just fix and
not really come back to uh because
they're very spot errors. For instance,
there's a there's a a tool calling error
just because your tool wasn't defined
well and stuff like that. You can just
fix it and move on, right? And this is
pretty much how an AI product life cycle
would look like. But what we
specifically also mention is while
you're going through these iterations,
try to think of lower agency iterations
in the beginning um and higher control
iterations. What that means is constrain
the number of decisions your AI systems
can make and um make sure that they're
humans in the loop and then increase
that over time because you're kind of
building a flywheel of behavior and uh
you're understanding what kind of use
cases are coming in or how your users
are using the system right and one
example I think we give in the
newsletter itself is um the customer
support this is a nice image that kind
of shows how you can think of agency and
control as two dimensions and each of
your versions keep on increasing the
agency or the ability of your AI system
to make decisions and lower the control
as you go. And one example that we give
is that of the u customer support agent
where you can break it down into three
versions. The first version is just
routing which is is your agent able to
classify and route a particular ticket
to the right department. And sometimes
when you read this you probably think is
it so hard to just do routing? Why can't
an agent easily do that? And when you go
to enterprises, routing itself can be a
super complex problem. Any retail
company, any popular retail company that
you can think of has hierarchical
taxonomies. Most of the times the
taxonomies are incredibly messy. I have
worked in you know use cases where you
probably have taxonomy that says um you
know some tax um some kind of hierarchy
and then that says shoes and then
women's shoes and men's shoes all at the
same layer where idea you should be
having shoes and then women's shoes and
men's shoes should be sub uh you know
classes right and then you're like okay
fine I could just merge that and you go
further and you see that there's also
another section under shoes that says
for women and for men and it's just not
aggregated it's not uh fixed for some
reason. So if an agent kind of sees this
kind of a taxonomy, what is it supposed
to do? Where is it supposed to route and
a lot of the times we are not aware of
these problems until you actually go
about building something and
understanding it, right? So um and when
these kind of problems um real human
agents see these kind of problems, they
know what to check next. U maybe they
realize that the the node that says for
women and for men that's under shoes was
last updated in 2019 which means that
it's just a dead node that's lying there
and not being used. So they kind of know
that okay we're supposed to be looking
at a different node and stuff like that.
And I'm not saying agents cannot
understand this or models are not
capable enough to understand this, but
there are really weird rules within
enterprises that are not documented
anywhere and you want to um make sure
that the agents have all of that context
instead of just throwing the problem at
them, right? Um yeah. Uh coming back to
the versions we had, routing was one
where you have really high control
because even if your agent routes to the
wrong department, humans can take
control and you know undo uh those
actions. Um and along the way you also
figure out that you probably are dealing
with a ton of data issues that you need
to fix and you know um um u make sure
that your data layer is good enough for
the agent to function. uh we do is what
we said of a co-pilot which is now that
you've figured out routing works fine
after a few iterations and you fixed all
of your data issues, you could go to the
next step which is can my agent provide
suggestions uh based on some standard
operating procedures that we have for
the customer support agent, right? And
it could just generate a draft that the
human can make changes to. And when you
do this, you're also logging human
behavior, which means that how much of
this draft was used by the customer
support agent or what was omitted. So
you're actually getting error analysis
for free when you do this because you're
literally logging everything that the
user is doing that you could then build
back into your flywheel. And then we say
post that once you figured out that
those drafts look good and most of the
times maybe humans are not making too
many changes. They're using these drafts
as is. That's when you want to go to
your end toend resolution assistant that
could you know um draft a resolution
that could sort the ticket as well right
and those are the stages of agency where
you start with low agency and then you
go up high, right? Um, we also have this
really nice table that we put together
which is what do you do at each version
and what you learn that can enable you
to go to the next step and what
information do you get that you can feed
into the loop. Right? When you're just
doing your routing, you have better
quality routing data. You also know what
kind of prompts you need to be building
to improve the routing system.
Essentially, you're figuring out your
structure for context engineering and um
building that flywheel that you want,
right? And while I go through this, I
want to also be very clear that two
things. One is when you build with CCCD
in mind, it doesn't mean that you fix
the problem all for once. It's possible
that you probably gone through V3 and
you see a new distribution of data that
you never previously imagined. But um
this is just one way to lower your risk
which is you get enough information
about how users behave with your system
before going to a point of complete um
autonomy. And the second thing is um
you're also kind of um building this um
you know implicit logging system. Uh a
lot of people come and tell us that oh
wait there are eval right why do you
need something like this? The issue with
just building a bunch of evaluation
metrics and then having um them in
production is evaluation metrics catch
only the errors that you're already
aware already aware of. But there can be
a lot of emerging patterns that you
understand only after you put things in
production. Right? So for those emerging
patterns, you're kind of creating um um
you know a low-risk uh kind of a
framework so that you could understand
user behavior and not really be in a
position where there are tons of errors
and you're trying to fix all of them at
once. And this is not the only way to do
it. There are tons of different ways.
You want to decide how you constrain
your autonomy. It could be based on the
number of actions that the agent is
taking, which is what we do in this
example. It could be based on topic.
there just some um domains where it's uh
pretty high risk to make a system
completely autonomous for um certain
decisions but for some other topics it's
okay to make them completely autonomous
and depending on the complexity of the
problem and that's where you really want
your product managers your you know um
engineers and subject matter experts to
align on how to build the system and
continuously improve it. The idea is
just behavior calibration and not losing
user trust as you do that behavior
calibration. I guess
>> we'll link folks to this actual post if
they want to go really deep. You
basically go through all of these steps
by step a bunch of examples. And the
idea here is as you said that like the
reason everything about what you're
describing here is about making it uh
continuous and iterative and kind of
moving along this progression of higher
autonomy, less control. And this idea of
even calling continuous calibration
continuous development is communicating
it's this kind of iterative process. And
just to be clear, this this naming is
kind of a owed to uh CI CICD, continuous
integration, continuous deployment
>> suite. And the idea here is like that
this is the version of that for AI where
instead of just like integrating into
unit tests and deploying constantly,
it's
>> uh running evals, looking at results,
iterating on on the metrics you're
watching, figuring out where it's
breaking, and iterating on that.
Awesome. Okay, so again, we'll point
people to this post if they want to go
deeper. That was a great overview. Is
there anything else before I go in a
different topic around this framework
specifically that you think is important
for people to know?
>> I think one of the most common questions
we get is how do I know if I need to go
to the next stage or if this is
calibrated enough, right? There's not
really a rule book you can follow, but
it's all about minimizing surprise,
which means let's say you're calibrating
every one or two days. Um, and you
figure out that you're not seeing new
data distribution patterns. your users
have been pretty consistent with how
they're behaving with the system, then
the amount of information you gain is
kind of very low and that's when you
know you can actually go to the next um
stage, right? And it's all about the
wipes at that point. Like do you know
you're ready? Um you're not receiving
any new information. But also it really
helps to understand that sometimes there
are events that could completely uh
you know mess up the calibration of your
system. An example is um GPD 40 doesn't
exist anymore or it's going to be
deprecated in APIs as well. So most
companies that were using 40 should
switch to five and five has very
different properties. So that's where
your calibration's off again. You want
to go back and do this process again.
Sometimes users start users start
behaving with systems also differently
over time or user behavior evolves even
with consumer products right you don't
talk to chat GPT the same way you were
talking say two years ago just because
you know the capabilities have increased
so much and and also just people get
excited when um you know these systems
can solve one task they want to try it
out on other tasks as well. Uh we built
this system um for underwriters at some
point, right? Underwriting is a painful
task. There are agreements that are like
you know uh you know loan uh
applications that are like 30 or 40
pages. And the idea for this bank was to
build a system that could help
underwriters pick policies and you know
um um information about the bank so that
they could approve loans, right? And for
a good three or four months, everybody
was pretty impressed with the system. We
had underwriters actually report gains
in terms of how much time they were
spending etc. And post 3 months we
realized that they were so excited with
the product that they started asking
very deep questions that we never
anticipated. They would just throw the
entire application document at the
system and go like for a case that looks
like this what did previous underwriters
do and for a user that just seems like a
natural extension of what they were
doing but the building behind it should
significantly change. Now you need to
understand what does for a case like
this mean in the context of the loan
itself. Is it referring to people of a
particular you know income range or is
it referring to people in a particular
geo and stuff like that and then you
need to pick up historical documents
analyze those documents and then tell
them um okay this is what it looks like
versus just saying that there's a policy
X Y and Z and you want to um you know
look up that policy. Um so something
that might seem very natural to a end
user might be very hard to build as a
product builder and you see that user
behavior also evolves over time and
that's when you know you you know that
you want to go back and recalibrate.
>> What do you think is uh overhyped in the
AI space right now and even more
importantly what do you think is is
underhyped?
>> I am as I said like super optimistic in
different things that are going in AI.
So I wouldn't say overhyped but I feel
kind of misunderstood is the concept of
multi- aents. Uh people have this notion
of like uh I have this incredibly
complex problem. Now I'm going to break
it down into hey you are this agent take
care of this. You're this agent take
care of this. And now if I somehow
connect all of these agents they think
they're the agent utopia. And it's never
the case that there are incredibly
successful multi-agent systems that are
built right like there's no doubt about
that. But I feel a lot of it comes in
terms of how are you limiting the uh
ways in which the system can go off
tracks and for example like if you're
building a supervisor agent and there
are like sub agents that actually do the
work for the super agent supervisor
agent that is a very uh successful
pattern but coming with this notion of
I'm going to divide the responsibilities
based on functionality and somehow uh
expect all of that to work together in
some sort of like gossip protocol.
uh that is like extremely uh
misunderstood that you could do that. I
don't think like current uh ways of
building and current like uh model
capabilities are like right there in
terms of like uh building those kind of
applications. I feel that is kind of
misunderstood than overrated. uh
underrated. I feel it's hard to probably
believe but I still feel coding agents
are underrated in the sense that I feel
like you can go on Twitter and you can
go on Reddit and you see a lot of
chatter about coding agents but talking
to an engineer in like any random
company uh especially outside of Bay
Area you you can see like the amount of
impact this coding agents can create and
the penetration is very low. So I feel
like 2025
uh and 2026 is going to be like an
incredible year for optimizing all of
these processes and I feel that is going
to be creating a lot of value with AI.
That's really interesting on that first
point. So the idea there is uh you'll
probably be more successful building and
using uh an agent that is able to do its
own sub agent splitting of work versus
like a bunch of say codeex agents where
you do this task, you do that task. You
can have agents to do these things and
you as a human can orchestrate it or you
can have like one uh larger agent that
is going to orchestrate all of these
things. But letting the agents
communicate in terms of peer-to-peer
kind of protocol and then especially uh
doing this in say a customer support
kind of use case is incredibly hard to
control what kind of agent is replying
to your customer because you need to
shift your guardrails everywhere and
things like that.
>> Yeah. Okay. Uh great picks. Okay, Ash,
what do you got?
>> Can I say emails? Will I be cancelled?
>> On which in which category? Which which
bucket do they go?
>> Overrated.
>> Overrated. Okay, go go go for it. You we
won't let you get cancelled.
>> Uh just kidding. I think EVAs are
misunderstood. They are important folks.
I'm not saying they're not important.
But I think just um this um I'm going to
keep um jumping across tools and going
to pick up and learn a new tool is
overrated. I I still am old school and
feel like you would need really need to
be obsessed with the business problem
you're trying to solve. AI is only a
tool. Try to think of it that way. Of
course, you need to be learning about
the latest and greatest, but don't be so
obsessed with just building so quickly.
Building is really cheap today. Um
design is more expensive. really
thinking about your product, what you're
going to build, is it going to really
solve a pain point is is what is way
more valuable today and it will only
become uh more true in the near future,
right? So really obsessing about your
problem and design is underrated and
just wrote building is overrated I
guess.
>> Awesome. Okay. Uh similar sort of
question from a a product point of view.
What do you think the next year of AI is
going to look like? give us a vision of
where you think things are going to go
by say by the end of 2026.
>> Yeah, I feel uh there's a lot of promise
in terms of uh this background agents or
proactive agents who is like they're
going to like basically understand your
workflow even more. Uh if you think if
you think of like where is AI failing to
create value today, it's mainly about
not understanding the context. And the
reason that it's not understanding the
context is it's not plugged into the
right places where actual work is
happening. Right? And as you do more of
this, you can give the agent mode of
context and then it start to see the
world around you and understand what is
the what are the set of metrics that
you're optimizing for or what are the
kind of activities that you're trying to
do. It is a very easy extension from
there to actually gain more out of it
and then let the agent prompt you back.
uh we already do this in terms of charge
GPT pulse which kind of gives you this
daily update of things you might care
about and it's it's very nice to
actually have that like jog your brain
up in terms of oh this is something that
I haven't thought about maybe this is
good and now when you extend this to
more complex tasks like a coding agent
which says that like okay I have fixed
five of your linear tickets and here are
the patches just review them at the
start of your day so I feel that is
going to be like extremely useful and I
see that as like a strong direction in
which like products are going to build
in 2026
That is so cool. So essentially agents
kind of anticipating what you want to do
and getting going getting ahead of you
and here's I've solved these problems
for you or I think this is going to
crash your site. Maybe you should fix
this thing right here or I see the spike
here and let's refactor our database.
Amazing. What a world. Okay, Ash, what
do you got?
>> I am all in for multimodal experiences
in 2026. I think we have done quite some
progress in 2025 and um not just in
terms of generation but also
understanding um until now I think LLMs
have been our most commonly used models
but as humans we are multimodal
creatures I would say like um language
is probably one of our last forms of
evolution as the three of us are talking
I think we're constantly getting so many
signals I'm like oh Lenny is nodding his
head so probably I would go in this
direction or Lenny's bored so let me
stop stop stop talking So there's a
chain of thought be behind your chain of
thought and you're constantly altering
it with language that dimension of
expression is not explored as well. So
if you we could build better multimodal
experiences that would get us closer to
um humanlike um conversation richness
and um yeah I think um and just you will
also just given the kind of models
there's a bunch of boring tasks as well
which are ripe for AI if multimodal
understanding gets better there are so
many handwritten documents and really
messy uh PDFs that cannot be passed even
by the best of the models as of today
and if It's possible. There's there'll
be so much um um data that we can tap
into.
>> Awesome. I just saw Demis from Deep Mind
AI, Google, whatever they call the whole
or uh talking about this where he's
thinks that's going to be a big part of
where they're going, combining the image
model work, the LLM, and also their
world model stuff, Genie, I think is
what it's called.
>> So, that's going to be a wild wild time.
Okay. Uh last question. If someone wants
to just get better at building AI
products, what's just maybe one skill or
maybe two skills that you think they
should lean into and develop?
>> I think we did cover a bunch of best
practices for AI products, which is
start small, try to get your iteration
going well and build a flywheel and all
of that. But again, if you kind of look
at it at a 10,000 ft level for anybody
building today, like I was saying,
implementation is going to be
ridiculously cheap in the next few
years. So really nail down your design,
your judgment, your taste and all of
that. Um and in general if you're
building a career as well I feel for the
past few years your your former years
say the first two three years of uh
building your career is always focused
on execution mechanics and all of that
and now we have AI that could help you
ramp pretty quickly and post that I mean
after a few years I think everybody
everybody's job becomes about your taste
your judgment and kind of um uh you know
what is uniquely you. I think nail down
on that part and try to figure out how
you can bring in um that kind of a
perspective. Um and it doesn't have to
mean that you should be significantly
older, have ex um years of experience.
We recently hired someone and we use
this very popular app uh for tracking
our tasks, right? And we've been using
it for years and we pay a high
subscription fee for it. And this guy
just came with his own white coded app
to the meeting. he onboarded us um to
all of it and he's like okay let's start
using this and I think that kind of
agency and that kind of ownership to
really rethink experiences is what uh
will set people apart and I'm not being
blind to the fact that wipe coded apps
have high maintenance costs and maybe as
we scale as a company we have to replace
it or we have to think of better
approaches but given that we're a smalls
size company now and just I I was really
shocked because I never thought of it um
um if you've been used to working in a
certain way you associate a cost with
building and I feel like folks who grew
up in this age u have a much lower cost
associated in their mind they just don't
mind building something and going ahead
with it and that's they're also very um
enthusiastic to try out new tools um
that's also probably why AI products
have this retention problem because
everybody's so excited about trying out
these new tools and all of that but
essentially um having the agency and
ownership and I think it's also the end
going to be the end of the busy work
era, right? You can't be sitting in a
corner doing something that doesn't move
the needle for a company. You really
need to be thinking about, you know, end
to-end workflows, how you can bring in
more impact. I think all of that will be
super important.
>> That reminds me, I just had Jason
Lumpkit on the podcast. He's um uh very
smart on sales, go to market, run
Zaster, and he replaced his whole sales
team with agents. He had 10 sales
people, now he has 1.2 and 20 agents.
And one of the agents, it was just
tracking everyone's updates to
Salesforce and kind of uh updating it
automatically for them based on their
calls. And one of the salespeople uh is
like, "Okay, I'm I I quit." And it turns
out he wasn't really doing anything.
>> He was just sitting around
>> and he's like, "Okay, this will catch
me. I got to get out of here."
>> Yes.
>> So to your point about you can't it'll
be harder to sit around and to your
thumbs. Uh I think is really right.
>> Yeah. I think to add on to that like
feel like persistence is also something
that is extremely valuable especially
given that anybody who wants to build
something is the information is like at
your fingertips even more than like the
past decade right you can learn anything
overnight and become that sort of like
iron man kind of approach so I feel like
having that persistence and like going
through the pain of like learning this
implementing this and like understanding
what works and what doesn't work and as
you are going through this like pain of
like developing multiple approaches and
then solving the problem. I feel that is
like going to be the real boat as an
individual like I I I like to call it
like pain is the new mode but uh I feel
that is exactly super useful to actually
have this in especially in like you know
you're building these AI products.
>> Say more about this. I love this
concept. Pain is the new moat. Is there
more there? Yeah, I feel as a company I
mean like successful companies right now
building in any new area they are
successful not because they're first to
the market or like they have this fancy
feature that more customers are liking
it. They went through the pain of
understanding what are the set of
non-negotiable things and trade them off
exactly with like what are the features
or like what are the model capabilities
that I can use to solve that problem. it
it this is not a straightforward
process, right? There's no textbook to
do this or like there's no
straightforward way or like a known
threaded path to be here. So a lot of
this pain I was talking about is just
like going through this iteration of
like okay let's try this and if this
doesn't work let's try this and that
kind of knowledge that you built across
the organization or across like your own
experience lived experiences I feel that
the that pain is what uh translates into
the mode of the company right this could
be like a product of eval or like
something that you built and I feel that
is going to be the game changer
>> that is awesome it's like uh turning a
coal into diamond Diamond. Yes. Okay. Uh
I feel like we've done a great job
helping people avoid some of the biggest
issues people consistently run into
building AI products. We've covered so
many of the pitfalls and the ways to
actually do it correctly.
Before we get to our very exciting
lightning round, is there anything else
that you wanted to share? Anything else
you want to leave listeners with?
>> Be obsessed with your customers. Be
obsessed with the problem. Um AI is just
a tool and um try to make sure that
you're really understanding your
workflows. 80% of so-called AI
engineers, AIPM spend their time
actually understanding their workflows
very well. They're not building the
fanciest and the you know most uh cool
models or um workflows around it.
They're actually in the wheats
understanding their customers behavior
and data. Um, and whenever a software
engineer who's never done AI before
hears the term, look at your data, I
think it's a huge revelation to them,
but it's always been the case. You need
to go there. Look at your data,
understand your users, and that's going
to be a huge differentiator.
>> It's a great way to close it. It's not
the AI isn't the answer. It's it's a
tool to solve the problem. With that, we
have reached our very exciting lightning
round. I've got five questions for both
of you. Are you ready? Yay. Yes.
>> All right. So, you can both answer them.
You can pick one which you want to
answer. Either way, up to you. What are
two or three books you find yourself
recommending most to other people?
>> For me, it's this book called When
Breath Becomes Air, Lenny. It was
written by Paul Kalaniti. I think he was
um um an Indian origin neurosurgeon who
was diagnosed with lung cancer at 31 or
32 and the whole book is his memoir and
just is written after he was diagnosed
and it's it's really beautiful
especially because I read it during co
and all we ever wanted to do during co
is stay alive. Um there are a bunch of
really nice quotes within the book as
well, but I remember one of them he was
kind of arguing against a very popular
quote by Socrates which is the
unexamined life is not worth living or
something like that. And which means you
really need to be thinking about your
choices. You need to you know understand
your values, your mission and all of
that. And um Paul says, "If the
unexamined life is not worth living, was
the unlived life worth examining?" Which
means are you spending so much time just
understanding your mission and purpose
that you've forgotten to live? And I
think it everybody who's uh staying in
the AI era and building and continuously
going through this phase of reinventing
themselves need to take a pause and live
for a bit. I guess they need to stop
evaling life too much. What really
>> I was going to say that that's where my
mind went. generate some emails for your
life. Oh my god, we've gone too far.
>> Yep. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's my
favorite book.
>> I I like more of science fiction books.
So, I uh really like this three body
problem series. Uh it's like a three
book series. It's it's like has it has
elements of like grander than science
fiction uh life outside earth and how it
impacts like human decision-m process
and it also has like elements of
geopolitics and how how much important
or like valuable abstract science is to
human progress and then that gets when
that gets stopped it's it's not
noticeable in everyday life but it it
can cause like devastating effects. So I
feel like AI helping in these areas for
example is going to be like extremely
crucial and that book is like a nice
example of what could happen otherwise.
Completely agree absolutely love might
be my favorite sci-fi book except or
series even and it's three I have to
read them all three by the way. I find
that it only got really good about one
and a half books in. So if anyone's
tried it and like what the heck is going
on here just keep reading and get to the
middle of the second one and then gets
mindblowing.
>> Yes. Uh, if you love sci-fi and you're
an AI, you got to read this book called
A Fire Upon the Deep
by uh, Vernon Vege.
>> Mhm.
>> Check it out. It's incredible. Uh, I saw
Noah Smith on his newsletter recommend
this book and there's like a whole
there's like sequels to it, but this is
the one. It's so incredible and it's
actually turns out it's about AGI and
super intelligence and all these things
and it's just like so epic and no one's
heard of it.
>> Thank you.
>> There you go. I'm giving you one back.
Okay, next question. What's a favorite
recent movie or TV show that you've
really enjoyed?
>> I started re-watching Silicon Valley,
and I think it's so true. It's so
timeless. Everything is repeating all
over again. Anybody who's watched it a
few years ago should start re-watching
it, and you'll see that it's eerily
similar to everything that's happening
right now with the AI wave.
>> That's That's a good idea to rewatch it.
I love that their whole business was
like an algorithm to compress, like a
compression algorithm. It's like maybe a
precursor to LM in some small way. Very
good. All right, GT, what you got?
>> Uh, I'm going to digress and say not a
movie or a TV show, but there's this
game I picked up recently called
Expedition 33. Uh, it has nothing to do
with AI, but it's an incredibly
incredibly well-made game in terms of
the game play or like the movie and the
story and the music. Uh, it it's been
amazing.
>> I love that you have time to play games.
That's a great sign. I love that. So, an
open eye. I'm just imagining you're
there's nothing else going on except
just coding and and
>> yeah, it has been incredibly hard to
find time for that.
>> That's good. That's a good sign. I'm
happy to hear this. Okay. What's a
favorite product that you've recently
discovered that you really love?
>> For me, it's Whisper Flow. I think I've
been using it quite a bit and I didn't
know I needed it so much. Um the best
part is it's a conceptual transcription
tool which means if you go to you know
codeex and start using whisfl it starts
identifying variables and all of that
and it's so seamless in terms of
transcription to instruction you could
say something like I'm so excited today
add three exclamation marks and it
seamlessly switches it adds those three
exclamation marks instead of you know
writing add three exclamation marks and
I think it's pretty cool um um if you're
not using it you should try it I'll do a
plug. Get Whisper Flow for free for an
entire year
>> for a year for free by becoming an
annual subscriber of my newsletter.
>> And that's how I got access to it.
Lenny,
>> there we go. It's like I think I I
pitched this deal. I think people don't
truly understand how incredible this is.
They're like, "No way. This is real."
It's real. And 18 other products.
Lenny's productbass.com. Check it out.
Moving on. K.
>> Awesome. Uh I actually am a stickler for
productivity. I keep experimenting new
CLI tools and like things which can uh
make me faster. Uh so I feel like a
recast has been amazing. Uh I've
discovered all this like new shortcuts
that you can use to open different
things, type in shortcut commands and
things like that. And caffeinate is
another thing that I've recently
discovered from my teammates. It helps
you like prevent Mac from sleeping. So
you can run this really long codeex task
for like four or five hours locally. Let
it build the thing and then you can wake
up and be like okay this is good. I like
this.
>> That's hilarious. That combo codeex and
caffeinate. You guys, you guys need to
use it. Like build that yourself. An
open air version of that or the codeex
agent should just keep your Mac from
sleeping. That's so funny. Uh, by the
way, Raycast also part of Lenny's
product pass. One year free of Raycast.
>> We wen
Lenny didn't tell us these folks. These
are actually our favorite.
>> These are just two of 19 products. No
caffeinate though. I don't know if
that's even paid. Okay, let's keep
going. Do you have a favorite life motto
that you find yourself coming back to in
work or in life?
>> For me, I think this is what my dad told
me when I was a kid and it's always
stuck, which is um um they told it
couldn't be done, but the fool didn't
know it, so he did it anyway. I think be
foolish enough to believe that you can
do anything if you put your heart to it.
Especially now because you have so much
data at your hand that could be pointing
towards the fact that you probably will
be unsuccessful. with how many podcasts
made it to more than a thousand
subscribers or how many companies hit
more than 1 million y and there's always
data to show you that you won't be
successful but sometimes just be foolish
and go ahead with it
>> that's great yeah for me I uh am more of
an overinker so I really like this quote
from Steve Jobs that you can only
connect the dots looking backwards so
it's a lot of the times there are like
numerous choices and you don't really
know the optimal one to pick but life's
life works in ways that you can actually
see back and be like, "Oh, these are
actually beautiful in terms of how I I
would transition." So, I feel like that
is extremely useful in like, you know,
keep moving forward, keep experimenting.
>> Final question. Whenever I have two
guests on the podcast at once, I like to
ask this question. What's something that
you admire about the other person?
>> I think with Kir, um, it's about he's
he's pretty calm and, uh, very grounded.
Um, and he's always been my sounding
board. I can throw a ton of ideas at him
and he always comes up with he's able to
anticipate the kind of issues that might
um, run into and he's extremely um, kind
and lets his work speak instead of
actually doing a lot of talking, I
guess. But if I had to pick one, I think
uh, he's the most incredible husband. So
>> reveal little people know.
>> Yeah. We've been married for four years
and been the most beautiful four years
of my life.
>> Oh wow. Okay. How do you follow that?
>> Yeah, it's super hard to follow that. I
would say I am extremely privileged in
terms of working with like really smart
people in great companies in the Silicon
Valley. And I feel the unique thing that
stands with Ashwaryia across like any
other uh smart folks I've worked on is
like she has this really amazing knack
of teaching and like explaining
something uh in a very understandable
and easy to comprehend way and that
combined with persistence is like super
useful especially in this uh fastmoving
AI world that we are in in the sense
that there's so many new things coming
up it feels overwhelming but when I hear
her talk about like this is how you make
sense of this entire thing this is where
it plugs in. I feel like oh that is so
simple like I can also do that. So she
empowers a lot of people by simplifying
things and you know like uh explaining
things in the most understandable way.
So I feel that is like an incredible
quality.
>> Amazing. How sweet. I got to do this all
the time. I need more more yes to that
was that was great. Okay. Uh final
questions. Where can folks find stuff
that you're working on? Find you online.
Talk about share your course link and
then just how can listeners be useful to
you?
>> I write a lot on LinkedIn. Um um so if
you if you want to listen to pragmatists
who've been in the weeds working on AI
products and um what they're seeing, you
can uh follow my work. We also have a
GitHub repository with about 20K stars
and that repository is all about good
resources for learning AI. It's
completely free and if you um like what
we spoke today, we also run a super
popular course. We'll leave a link to it
on building enterprise AI products. And
the course is a lot about unlearning
mindsets and following like a problem
first approach uh instead of a tool
first or a hype first approach. Um so
you can check that out as well. And if
you don't want to do the course, we
write a lot. We give out a lot of free
resources. We have free sessions. So
make sure you follow our work.
>> Yeah, I would also add that I you can
also find me on LinkedIn. uh I don't
like write a lot I guess but I'm super
all excited to just talk to any complex
product that you're building and if you
have thoughts on like how you can uh use
coding agents to make your life better
or how what are the problems that you're
seeing um always my DMs are open and
like we can have a great discuss.
>> Awesome. Well, Kiriti and Ash, thank you
so much for being here.
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thank you Lenny. This was so much fun.
>> So much fun. Bye everyone.
>> Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.